I want to look into how we
would have data persist.
So if I have an app, and I wanna be able
to have somebody create something and save
it, and then have that saved data still be
there the next time they load up the app.
Or if they move to another device,
we wanna make sure that they
can get access to that.
So for that to work,
we need to have access to a database.
Traditionally, databases
have been kind of a pain.
If you've ever managed your own MySQL or
Mongo or
PostgreSQL or any of those instances,
it's something that you have to stand up.
You have to know enough about it to
set it up and configure the tables.
And then there's a whole bunch of boiler
plates to write the cred operations and
then making sure that it's all kinda
sanitized and managed properly.
That's all been getting
progressively easier over time.
And now, we've actually gotten to
the point where it's effectively just like
we did as front end developers.
We don't really have to think about it.
And so I'm super excited to show you
this because this is all pretty new.
So I'm going to move
into the to-do folder,
because what is a workshop if you
don't build a to-do app, right?
So let's get into this to-do folder, and
I'm gonna clear out some old stuff
here that I should have done before.
Okay, so what we've got in this
folder is just a .n.example.
And for this, we're gonna be
using a service called Fauna.
Fauna is a very cool database.
It does a lot of very
computer science-y things.
They're gonna talk about stuff like
acid and transactions and stuff that
honestly as a front-end developer,
you want to never have to think about.
And that is one of the reasons why I like
it is that they offer these things but
we don't have to care about them.
The other thing that I think is exciting
is that its designed to be compatible with
the server-less world.
And it's designed to be
compatible with GraphQL.
Who here has used GraphQL before?
It's a couple hands, great.
And if you haven't used GraphQL,
don't worry,
we're not going to go super deep here.
We're going to be kind
of skimming the surface.
And I hope that it's enough to get you
really excited about it because I think
GraphQL is just amazing.
It's such a good technology for
front end development.
So, what we're gonna do first is
we're going to actually just set up
a fauna account.
So let me jump in over here.
And I'm gonna go to fauna.com.
And so fauna is effectively
designed from the API up
to be really easy to use with serverless
and that's why I think it's kind of nice.
So I already have an account,
I'm gonna sign in with Telefi.
And now that we get in,
I already created this database so
that I wouldn't have to show API tokens.
But what we would do here is,
we just create a new database and
that'll get us set.
So no special anything.
We don't wanna pre-populate
with demo data.
We're just creating a database.
So inside of this,
I'm going to get my keys out.
And so this is the key that I've created,
you would just create a new one here.
When you create a new key,
you're gonna click this button,
make sure you've selected
your current database.
And then for the role,
we wanna choose a server key.
You can add a name for it if you want.
But that name is completely optional.
And then once you've done that,
you can save it.
And then once you have that key,
you're gonna open up the .env or
you're gonna create a .env and
just use this .env example as
the setting and just replace it here.